README.md, before:

# elisp-refs
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Wilfred/elisp-refs.el.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Wilfred/elisp-refs.el)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/Wilfred/elisp-refs.el/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/Wilfred/elisp-refs.el?branch=master)
[![MELPA](http://melpa.org/packages/elisp-refs-badge.svg)](http://melpa.org/#/elisp-refs)

elisp-refs is an intelligent code search for Emacs.

It can find references to functions, macros or variables. Unlike a
dumb text search, elisp-refs actually parses the code, so it's never
confused by comments or variables with the same name as functions.

![screenshot](refs_screenshot.png)

This is particularly useful for finding all the places a function is
used, or finding examples of usage.

## Installation

Install from MELPA (recommended) or just add elisp-refs to your `load-path`.

## Commands available

* `elisp-refs-function` (find function calls)
* `elisp-refs-macro` (find macro calls)
* `elisp-refs-variable` (find variable references)
* `elisp-refs-special` (find special form calls)
* `elisp-refs-symbol` (find all references to a symbol)

## Semantic analysis

elisp-refs has *street smarts*: given `(defun foo (bar) (baz))`, it
understands that `bar` is a variable and `baz` is a function.

elisp-refs understands the following forms:

* `defun` `defsubst` `defmacro` `cl-defun`
* `lambda`
* `let` `let*`
* `funcall` `apply`
* sharp quoted expressions

## Limitations

elisp-refs understands elisp special forms, and a few common
macros. However, it **cannot understand arbitrary macros**.

Therefore elisp-refs will assume that `(other-macro (foo bar))` is a
function call to `foo`. If this is incorrect, you may wish to use the
command `elisp-refs-symbol` to find all references to the `foo` symbol.

If `other-macro` is a common macro, please consider submitting a patch
to `elisp-refs--function-p` to make elisp-refs smarter.

elisp-refs also **does not support** indirect calls.

``` emacs-lisp
;; Since we do a simple syntax walk, this isn't treated as a
;; call to foo.
(let ((x (symbol-function 'foo)))
  (funcall x))

;; Similarly, pasing functions as arguments will not be treated
;; as function calls either.
(defun call-func (x)
  (funcall x))
(call-func 'foo)
```

## Running tests

You can run the tests with:

```
$ cask install
$ cask exec ert-runner
```

## Performance

elisp-refs is CPU-intensive elisp and has been carefully optimised. You
can run the benchmark script with:

```
$ cask install
$ ./bench.sh
```

New features are carefully measured to ensure performance does not get
worse.

See elisp-refs-bench.el for more details.

## Changelog

v1.1:

* Rebranded to elisp-refs.
* Commands are now autoloaded.
* Added examples to the readme of cases that we can't detect.
* Sharp-quoted function references are now highlighted with context.
* Give more feedback on first run, when we're decompressing .el.gz
  files.

v1.0: Initial release.

## Alternative Projects

**xref-find-references**: This command is included in Emacs 25.1, but
it's based on a text search. It is confused by comment and strings,
and cannot distinguish between functions and variables.

xrefs-find-references is also line oriented, so it does not show the
whole sexp that matched your search.

**TAGS**: It is possible to record function references in TAGS
files. Whilst [universal-ctags](https://github.com/universal-ctags/ctags) (formerly
known as exuberant-ctags) does provide the ability to find references,
it is not supported in its lisp parser.

etags, the TAGS implementation shipped with Emacs, cannot find
references (to my knowledge).

**el-search**:
[el-search](https://elpa.gnu.org/packages/el-search.html) allows you
to search for arbitrary forms in elisp files. It's slower, but a much
more general tool. Its design greatly influenced elisp-refs.

**elisp-slime-nav**:
[elisp-slime-nav](https://github.com/purcell/elisp-slime-nav) finds
definitions, not references. It's a great complementary tool.

Commit message:

Doesn't seem to search .el.gz files either.

README.md, after:

# elisp-refs
[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Wilfred/elisp-refs.el.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/Wilfred/elisp-refs.el)
[![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/Wilfred/elisp-refs.el/badge.svg?branch=master)](https://coveralls.io/github/Wilfred/elisp-refs.el?branch=master)
[![MELPA](http://melpa.org/packages/elisp-refs-badge.svg)](http://melpa.org/#/elisp-refs)

elisp-refs is an intelligent code search for Emacs.

It can find references to functions, macros or variables. Unlike a
dumb text search, elisp-refs actually parses the code, so it's never
confused by comments or variables with the same name as functions.

![screenshot](refs_screenshot.png)

This is particularly useful for finding all the places a function is
used, or finding examples of usage.

## Installation

Install from MELPA (recommended) or just add elisp-refs to your `load-path`.

## Commands available

* `elisp-refs-function` (find function calls)
* `elisp-refs-macro` (find macro calls)
* `elisp-refs-variable` (find variable references)
* `elisp-refs-special` (find special form calls)
* `elisp-refs-symbol` (find all references to a symbol)

## Semantic analysis

elisp-refs has *street smarts*: given `(defun foo (bar) (baz))`, it
understands that `bar` is a variable and `baz` is a function.

elisp-refs understands the following forms:

* `defun` `defsubst` `defmacro` `cl-defun`
* `lambda`
* `let` `let*`
* `funcall` `apply`
* sharp quoted expressions

## Limitations

elisp-refs understands elisp special forms, and a few common
macros. However, it **cannot understand arbitrary macros**.

Therefore elisp-refs will assume that `(other-macro (foo bar))` is a
function call to `foo`. If this is incorrect, you may wish to use the
command `elisp-refs-symbol` to find all references to the `foo` symbol.

If `other-macro` is a common macro, please consider submitting a patch
to `elisp-refs--function-p` to make elisp-refs smarter.

elisp-refs also **does not support** indirect calls.

``` emacs-lisp
;; Since we do a simple syntax walk, this isn't treated as a
;; call to foo.
(let ((x (symbol-function 'foo)))
  (funcall x))

;; Similarly, pasing functions as arguments will not be treated
;; as function calls either.
(defun call-func (x)
  (funcall x))
(call-func 'foo)
```

## Running tests

You can run the tests with:

```
$ cask install
$ cask exec ert-runner
```

## Performance

elisp-refs is CPU-intensive elisp and has been carefully optimised. You
can run the benchmark script with:

```
$ cask install
$ ./bench.sh
```

New features are carefully measured to ensure performance does not get
worse.

See elisp-refs-bench.el for more details.

## Changelog

v1.1:

* Rebranded to elisp-refs.
* Commands are now autoloaded.
* Added examples to the readme of cases that we can't detect.
* Sharp-quoted function references are now highlighted with context.
* Give more feedback on first run, when we're decompressing .el.gz
  files.

v1.0: Initial release.

## Alternative Projects

**xref-find-references**: This command is included in Emacs 25.1, but
it's based on a text search. It is confused by comment and strings,
and cannot distinguish between functions and variables.

xrefs-find-references is also line oriented, so it does not show the
whole sexp that matched your search. Since it requires text files,
it doesn't search built-in .el.gz files.

**TAGS**: It is possible to record function references in TAGS
files. Whilst [universal-ctags](https://github.com/universal-ctags/ctags) (formerly
known as exuberant-ctags) does provide the ability to find references,
it is not supported in its lisp parser.

etags, the TAGS implementation shipped with Emacs, cannot find
references (to my knowledge).

**el-search**:
[el-search](https://elpa.gnu.org/packages/el-search.html) allows you
to search for arbitrary forms in elisp files. It's slower, but a much
more general tool. Its design greatly influenced elisp-refs.

**elisp-slime-nav**:
[elisp-slime-nav](https://github.com/purcell/elisp-slime-nav) finds
definitions, not references. It's a great complementary tool.
